Just to be facetious for a second,
let's just introduce an artificial await here.
And I can never remember how to write this off
the top of my head, so I'm gonna ask Coppola to do it.
Wait here for 10 seconds.
It creates a new promise, it waits it for 10 seconds,
then after 10 seconds it resolves it.
So now if you look at this,
it's gonna be empty for the first 10 seconds, right?
Cause it got the information back
cause it's all local host, right?
So it's all instantaneous.
And then after that while it comes back
and then it will finally set the thing to be what you need.
Make sense?
All right.
So that is our fetch pizza, that's our effect.
That's probably the most interesting part of this.
Now, just for fun, we have our pizza down here.
Let's pass our selected pizza in.
So we have selected pizza dot name,
selected pizza dot description.
And I think it's selected pizza dot image.
See if that works.
So you have pepperoni here.
And notice it's changing the title
and the description.
We're not changing the price yet
because we haven't put that part
into our pizza component yet, but.
There you go.
Kind of cool, right?
So now you can see how effect and state kind of layer
onto each other to create this kind of like interactivity.
One more stupid example.
Let's just do the pizza size one up there
that we were talking about.
Pizza size here and use effect.
I'm gonna pop open my dev tools here.
Notice that now every time that I click this,
I'm getting another Ajax request to the API, right?
Because it's just watching to see whenever that changes.
But notice if I change this, let me trash this
so you can see.
Not doing it, right?
Because we're not changing based on pizza type.
We're only changing based on pizza size.
And if you wanted to change, if anything changes,
give it no array and it's gonna get real mad
and notice that DDoS yourself, right?
Why am I DDoSing it myself?
Because it's re-rendering a lot, right?
Look at my API here, it's just going hog wild.
Oh my God, please stop.
All right, so why is it doing that?
What am I doing right here?
I'm changing the state, which causes a re-render,
which schedules an effect, which changes the state,
which schedules an effect, right?
That's why.
So if you find yourself doing something like that,
you probably forgot an array somewhere.
A general useful rule of thumb is if inside of your effect,
you refer to a piece of state,
it should probably be tracked inside of your,
they call this your dependencies, right?
Your dependent state.
So let's say I had to call pizza types with pizza size
for whatever reason,
then you would normally see pizza size go here.
That's just kind of a useful rule of thumb.
And again, you can put as many things in here as you want.
So I have this price here,
and I wanna show the correct price from my order.jsx.
So if we look here again at my response,
you can see here I have a sizes.
So this is saying the barbecue chicken,
the smallest 12.75, the medium is 16.75,
and the largest 20.75.
And I wanna display the right price here.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna say,
I'm just gonna display price here, like that.
And then price up here,
I'm gonna say price is equal to format.
Oh, and I have to do this underneath selected pizza,
so it has to be underneath here, sorry.
Selected pizza.size,
and then we're gonna give it the pizza size
that's been selected, so right there.
I guess I can probably just put that in there.
And then it'll only get set with the selected pizza.
Let me make sure that's correct.
Nope, I broke it, what did I do?
Selected pizza is undefined.
And then I'm gonna give it the pizza size
that's been selected, so right there.
Oh yeah, so this is just good for us to debug.
Why is selected pizza undefined?
So first of all, hot module refresh
is a wonderful feature that code gets subbed in on the fly,
but that's why it was working before
and it's not working now, right?
Because selected pizza is not real at this point, right?
So if you try and set it to be something else,
it's not gonna work, right?
So the way I'm gonna do this is I'm gonna say, loading.
And if it's loading, I'm just gonna show,
loading pizza, lol.
And if it's not loading,
then I'm just gonna show my pizza.
And selected pizza size, did I mis-name that?
Network, response, sizes, my bad.
All right, now if I click tie chicken here
and then I will open it up,
and then I'm gonna go ahead and set it to pizza size.
Now if I click tie chicken here
and then I watch the price down here,
it'll move from various price to price
based on what size you've selected
and the pizza you've selected.
So let's talk about the ternary that I put in there
because that's a little weird looking too.
Again, anything inside of the curly braces
can be a JavaScript expression of any variety.
Ternaries have the benefit of being expressions,
not statements.
A statement is an entire line,
an expression is part of a line.
So I'm saying loading, which is a Boolean, true or false.
If this is true, you do the first thing.
So if it's loading, show this very lovely
and descriptive loading message crafted with love and care
and run by legal.
Loading pizza, and as soon as it's done being loaded,
so once loading is false, right,
then you can show the pizza
because we have all the data there that we need.
Make sense?
React developers love their ternarys.
You'll see them everywhere in React.